

Analysis of single cell sequencing data was carried out using the 10x
Genomics Cellranger software (version 3.1.0). The bcl files were
converted to FASTQ format and mapped to the GRCh38 reference
genome. Cellranger was further used to generate UMI counts from those
droplets likely to contain at least one cell and aggregated into a
read depth normalized feature count matrix. The 10x Genomics
cellbrowser (Cloupe version 5) was used for visualization purposes and
cell-type assignment of the aggregated data. Downstream analysis was
conducted primarily using the Seurat R package (Stuart et
al.2019). Cells with low counts (<200) or classified as low quality by
the miQC R package (Hippen et al. 2021) were excluded. Features with
counts lower than 500 or higher than 40000 counts were also
excluded. The count data was further normalized with the sctransform
variance transform accounting for the mitochondrial fraction and the
top 3000 highly variable genes were used for principal component
analysis (PCA) dimension reduction. The top 40 principal components
were used as input to the uniform manifold approximation (UMAP) method
and clustered using the "FindClusters" function. The cell-type
classifications were refined to match the clustering output and
differential expressions between groups were identified with the
non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test using the Seurat function
"FindMarkers".



Alignment and gene expression quantification of samples was performed
using the STARsolo option of the STAR (v2.7.3) aligner using the
GRCh38 reference genome. Acceptable cell barcodes were downloaded from
the 10x Genomics website (3M-february-2018.txt) and barcodes
representing a droplet with missing cells were classified using the
EmptyDrops R package. The feature count table was imported to scanpy
(v1.5.1) for downstream analysis. Cell doublets were identified with
Scrublet (Wolock et al. 2019) and removed. A cell with read count
between 1000-25000, mitochondrial gene fraction > 20%, and >400 genes
expressed was kept for further analysis, and features detected in <20
cells were filtered out. The feature count table was normalized to
total size factors derived by the "computeSumFactors" method of the
scran R package and log-transformed. The 3000 most highly variable
genes were used for Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and the top 20
principal components were used as input to the uniform manifold
approximation (UMAP) method and clustered using the louvain method
(Traag et al. 2018). Marker genes between groups were identified with
the non-parametric Wilcoxon rank-sum test using the scanpy function
"rank_genes_groups". The derived results and data were exported to the
UCSC Cellbrowser (Speir et al. 2021) for further visual aid and
analysis.
